Welcome back.
We've learned about singly and doubly linked lists.
So let's talk about when you should use one over the other.
Let's start with the singly linked list.
The pro of a singly linked list is that it's a fairly simple implementation especially compared to the
doubly one.
It requires less memory as we can see here less Block.
And because there's less memory when we do things like delete and insert because there is technically
less operation we don't have to move around the previous property.
It's a little bit faster.
Now the downside with a singly linked list is that it cannot be iterated in reverse or traverse from
back to front if we ever lose the reference to this Dot had node of the list.
The list can actually be lost in memory forever so singly list is appropriate to use when you have less
memory or memory is really expensive.
You want to be careful of how much you use and your main goal is that you want to do fast insertion
and deletion.
And you don't really have that much searching especially when you have insertion at the beginning of
a list.
A doubly linked list.
Well the good side of is that it can be iterated or traversed both from the front or from the back.
Another beauty is that if you need to delete a previous node you don't need to traverse from the head
node and find what the previous notice which a singly list linked list has no concept of.
You can do that fairly easily with a doubly linked list.
Now the downside is that it is fairly complex as we saw to implement and requires more memory and storage
because of this extra property and there are some actual operations that we need to perform to make
sure that we when we do insert and delete that the previous property is updated as well.
So double linked lists are really good when you don't have that much limitation on memory.
And when you want good operation for searching for elements such as searching backwards instead of just
Fort's most of the time in interview situations you're going to see singly linked list.
You may be asked a theoretical or broad question about the difference between singly and doubly linked
list.
But most of the time this is where you're going to see.
All right.
I'll see you in the next video.
Buh-Bye.